# Configure Azure resource with tools

### Use the Azure Portal

Azure portal lets you build, manage and monitor everything from basic web apps to complex cloud applications.

- Search resources, services and docs

- Manage resources

- Create customised dashboards and favourites

- Access Cloud shell

- Receive notifications

- Links to Azure docs

### Use Azure Cloud Shell

Azure Cloud Shell is an interactive browser accessible shell for managing Azure resources (you can use PowerShell, or bash). 

Features:

- Temporary and requires a new or existing Azure Files share to be mounted

- Offers an integrated graphical text editor based on FOSS Monaco editor

- Authenticates automatically for instant access to resources

- Runs on a temporary host provided on a per-session per user basis

- Times out after 20 minutes of inactivity

- Requires a resource group, storage account, and Azure File share

- Uses the same Azure file share for both bash and PS

- Is assigned to one machine per user account

- Persists $HOME using a 5GB image held in file share

- Permissions set as a regular user in bash

### Use Azure PowerShell

Azure PowerShell is a module you can add to Windows PowerShell or PowerShell Core to enable you to connect to your Azure subscription and manage resources. 

As an example, you can use the New-AzVm command to create a virutal machine inside your Azure sub.

Azure PowerShell is available two ways: inside a browser via the Azure Cloud Shell, or with a local installation on Windows/Linux/macOS.

**What is the Az module?**

The formal name for the Azure PowerShell module containing cmdlets to work with Azure features allowing you to control nearly every aspect of every Azure resource e.g

- Resource groups

- Storage

- VMs

- Azure AD

- Containers

- Machine Learning

### Use Azure CLI

Azure CLI is a command-line program to connect to Azure and execute admin commands on Azure resources. It runs on Linux, macOS, and Windows and allows admins and developers to execute their commands through a terminal, command line prompt, or script instead of a web browser.

If you already know the name of the command you need, you can use the --help argument to get more information.
