# What is AAD SSPR?

It's a way for AAD users to reset their own password to their account to save admins from having to take the time to do it.

### Why use AAD SSPR?

In AAD, a user can chang their password if they are already signed in, but not if they have forgotten their password or if it has expired. With SSPR, it means that they cna reset it from the Windows login screen and re-gain access to Azure, M365, and other services.

### How SSPR works

A user can intiate an SSPR by going directly to the password protal or by selecting "Can't access your account"

1. Localisation: The portal checks the browsers locale setting and serves the appropriate language

2. Verification: The user enters their username and responds to a captcha

3. Authentication: The user enters the required data to verify tehir identity (e.g. by answering a security question)

4. Password reset: At this point, they can now set a new password

5. Notification: a notification is sent to the user informing them their password has been successfully reset

### Authenticating a password reset

Before a password reset can take place, it is crucial that their identity is verified - this can be done many ways:

- Mobile app notification via MS Authenticator

- Mobile app code (from a non-MS Authenticator)

- Email

- Mobile number

- Office phone

- Security question

The above methods must have a minimum number set (e.g. 2 - meaning they have to authenticate two ways)

### License Requirements

The password reset functionality you can use depends on the licensing you have.

If you are not signed in and you've forgotten your password or it has expired, you can use SSPR in AAD with Permium P1, P2, M365 or M365 Business.

In a hybrid scenario, any password change must write back from AAD to the on-prem set up which is available under the same licensing as above.

### Implementing AAD SSPR

There needs to be the following in place:

- An  Azure AD organisation with a trial license enabled (at a minimum)

- An AAD account with Global Administrator privileges - used to set up SSPR

- A non-admin user account (used to test SSPR) with a valid license

- A security group to test configuration with - the non-admin account must be a member of this group

### Scope of SSPR rollout

There are 3 settings for the SSPR enabled property:

- Disabled (no users in the organisation can use SSPR)

- Enabled (all users in the organisation can use SSPR)

- Selected (only certain members of the organisation can use SSPR)
