# Implement Azure Blob Storage

### Things to know about Blob Storage

It can store any time of text or binary data (e.g. documents, images, video files, or application installers.

It uses three reosurces to store and manage your data:

- An Azure storage account

- Containers in an Azure storage account

- Blobs in a container

To implement it, you configure:

- Blob container options

- Blob types and upload options

- Blob storage access tiers

- Blob lifecycle rules

- Blob object replication options

### Creating blob containers

**Overview**

- All blobs must be in a container

- A container can store an unlimited number of blobs

- An Azure storage account can contain an unlimited amount of containers

- You create the container in the Azure Portal and upload blobs to a container

**Configure a container**

In the Azure Portal you configure two settings to create a container for an Azure storage account - the name, and the public access level

**Assign blob access tiers**

Hot tier: optimised for frequent reads and writes of objects to the storage account - it has the lowest access costs but higher storage costs than Cool and Archive tiers

Cool tier: optimised for storing large amounts of data that is infrequently accessed - intended for data that remains in the Cool tier for 30 days or so. Good for short-term backup and DR. It is more const effective, but accessing the data can be more expensive than a Hot tier

Archive tier: optimised for data that can tolerate serveral hours of retreival latency. It must remain in the Archive tier for at least 180 days or there is an early deletion charge. Data for this tier includes secondary backups or legally required compliance information. It is the most cost effective option for storing data but more expensive than other tiers to access the data

### Blob lifecycle management rules

Every data set has a unique lifecycle. early in the cycle, users tend to access some data but not all. As it ages, access tends to dramatically reduce. Some stays idle and is rarely accessed. Some will expire a few days or months after it is created, some is actively read and modified throughout its' lifetime.

You can create rules that move data through the tiers using if-Then conditions to transition or expire data along the way.

### Blob object replication

Object replication copies a container asychronously according the the policy rules you have configured. The following is copied to the destination:

- Blob contents

- Metadata and properties

- Any versions of data associted

**Things to know about bob object replication**

- Object replication requires that blob versioning is enabled on both the source and destination accounts

- It does not support blob snapshots - any snapshots on the source are not replicated to the destination

- It is supported when the source and destination accounts are in the hot or cool tier (they can be different tiers)

- When you configure it, you create a replication policy that specifies the source Azure storage account and the destination account

- A replication policy includes one or more rules that specifcy the source and destination container. The policy identifies blobs in teh source to replicate

### Upload blobs

Characteristics of blob types:

**Block blobs**: consists of blocks of dta that are assembled to make a blob. Most storage scenarios use these.

**Append blobs**: similar to a block blob becasue it also consists of blocks of data - however the are optimised for append operations which can be useful for logging scenarios

**Page blobs**: can be up to 8TB in size and are more efficient for frequent read/writes

**The default blob type is block blob - after you create a blob you cannot change type**

### Blob storage pricing

There are a few considerations when it comes to billing:

- Performance tiers

- Data access costs (increases the cooler it gets)

- Transaction costs

- Geo-replication data transfer costs

- Outbound data transfer costs

- Changes to storage tier
