# Microosft Security, Compliacne and Identity Fundamentals: Describe the concepts of security, compliance, and identity

### Shared responsibility module

[shared-responsibility-model-graphic](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/wwl-sci/describe-security-concepts-methodologies/media/3-shared-responsibility-model.png)

- On-premises datacenters: customer is responsible for everything from physical security to encrypting data properly

- Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): Most responsiblity still lies with customer. Although they are using the providers infra, they are responsible for software, os, network, applications and protecting data

- Platform as a Service (PaaS): PaaS provides a platform for building, testing, and deploying software quickly. The customer is still responsible for applications and data.

- Software as a Service (SaaS): The least amount of responsibility for the customer - everything is taken care of except the data, devices, accounts, and identities.

- 

### Defence in depth

A layered approach to security - if one layer gets breached, the next will (ideally) not allow any further access.

Examples of layers of security are:

- **Physical** - limiting access to a datacenter or building to only valid personnel

- **Identity and access** - security controls such as MFA and conditional access to make any changes

- **Perimeter security** of your network to protect against DDos and large scale attacks.

- **Network security** - segmentation, access controls, limiting communications between resources

- **Computer layer security** - securing access to virtual machines on-prem or in the cloud by closing certain ports.

- **Application layer security** - ensuring applications are secure and do not have security vulnerabilities.

- **Data layer security** - controls to manage acces to business and customer data, with encryption to protect it.

### Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability (CIA)

The above layers are all in the aim of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability, which is referred to as CIA:

- Confidentiality - keeping confidential data (customer, passwords, financial) encrypted.

- Integrity - keeping data properly stored and accurate and ensuring that is has not been tampered with or altered.

- Availability - needs to be available to those who need it. 

### The Zero Trust model

Zero Trust assumes that everything is on an open and untrusted network - even resources behind firewalls, operating on the principle of "trust no one, verify everything".

**The Zero Trust guiding principles**

- Verify explicitly - Always authenticate and authorize based on available data points (user identity, location, device, service or workload, data classification, anomalies)

- Least privileged access - Limit user access with just-in-time and just-enough-access (JIT/JEA), risk-based adaptive policies, and data protection

- Assume breach - Segment access by network, user, devices, and application. Use encryption to protect data and analytics to get visibility, detect threats, and improve overall security

**Foundational pillars of Zero Trust**

**Identities**: when an identity tries to access a resource, it must be verified with strong authentication and follow least privilege access principles

**Devices**: create a large attack surface. Monitoring for health and compliance is an important aspect.

**Applications**: the way data is consumed. Discover all applications used - sometimes referred to as shadow IT because not all of them are centrally managed. It also includes managing permissions and access.

**Data**: should be classified, labelled, and encrypted based on its attributes.

**Infrastructure**: represents a threat vector. Assess for version, config, and JIT acess and use telemetry to detect attacks and anomalies. Allows you to automatically block or flag risky behaviour.

**Networks**: should be segmented, including in-network microsegmentation. Real-time threat protection, end-to-end encryption, monitoring, and analytics should be employed.

### Encryption and hashing

There are two top-level types of encryption: symmetric, and asymmetric. Symmetric uses the same key to encrypt/decrypt. Asymmetric uses a paired key (public and private)

**Encryption for data at rest**

Stored on a device (e.g. server) where a key is needed to decrypt it.

**Encryption for data in transit**

Data is encrypted when moving from one location to another e.g. across the internet or a private network. HTTPS is an example of this.

**Encryption for data in use**

Secures data in nonpersistent storage e.g. RAM or CPU cache. An enclave is created that protects the data while the CPU processes it.

**Hashing**

An algorithm that converts text to a unieuq fixed length value called a hash.

It is used to store passwords. When a user enters their password, the algorithm that created the stored hash creates a hash of the password. If they both match, then the password is correct.

To prevent further risk, passwords are often "salted", which is when a fixed length random value is added to the input of the hash function so that unieuq hashes are created for the same input.

### Compliance Concepts

**Data residency**: regulations govern the physical locations of where data can be stored, how and when it can be transferred, processed or accessed internationally.

**Data sovereignty**: data (especially personal data) is subject to laws and regulations of the contry/ region of where it is physically collected, held, and processed. 

**Data privacy**: providing notice and being transparent about the collection, processing and use of personal data.
