# Identity Concepts

### Defining authenticataion and authorization

**Authentication**

The process of proving someone is who they say they are e.g. when buying something with a credit card, a username or password to use a device etc.

**Authorization**

Once authenticated, you'll need to decide what they can access - this pertains to permissions. What can the user do/see?

### Identity as the primary security perimiter

Employees and partners need to collaborate with each other and access company resources anywhere, without productivity taking a hit. This means that the on-premises network (e.g. in the office) cannot be considered the "perimiter". It now includes:

- SaaS applications

- Personal devices employees use

- Unmanaged devices used by partners and customers

- IoT devices

### The four pillars of an identity infrastructure

**Administration**

Administration refers to the creation/management and governance of identities for users, devices, and services.

**Authentication**

Tells how much an IT system knows about an identity to have proof they really are who they say they are.

**Authorization**

Processes the identity data to determine what level of access the person or service has within the application or service they are trying to access.

**Auditing**

Tracking who does what, where, and how. In-depth reporting, alerts, and governance are all part of identities.

### The role of the identity provider

Modern authentication is the umberella term for authentication and authorization methods between a client (laptop, phone), and a server (website, application). Central to this is the role of an identity provider. An identity provider creates, maintains and manages identity information whilst offering authentication, authorization, and auditing services.

**Single sign-on (SSO)**

With SSO, the user logs in once and that credential is used to access multiple applications/resources. When SSO is set up between multiple identity providers it is called federation.

### Concept of Directory Services and Active Directory

A directory is a hierarchical structure that stores information about objects on the network. A directory services stores directory data and makes it available to network users, administrators, services, and applications.

Active Directory (AD) is a set of directory services developed by MS as part of Win 2000 for on-prem domain based networks.

The b est known is Active Directory Domain Service (AD DS) which stores information about members of the domain (including devices and users), verifies credentials, and defines access rights. A server runing AD DS is a domain controller (DC)

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is the next evolution of this (because it can support mobile devices, SaaS apps, and LOB apps).

### Concept of Federation

The simplest way to think about federation is as follows:

- Website in domain A uses the authentication services of Identity Provider A

- The user in domain B, authenticates with Identity Provider B

- Identity Provider A and B have a trust relationship configured

- When the user who wants to accss the website they are allowed to do so because it trusts the user due to the established relationship between identity providers.
