# Authentication Capabilities of Azure AD

### Passwords

The most common form of authentication, but shoul always be mixed with some of the other methods below.

### Phone

There are two optoins for phone-based authentication:

- SMS - a 6 digit code is texted to the users phone number which they must enter. 

- Voice call - user must press # 

These can be a secondary form of authentication when doing self-service password reset (SSPR) or Azure AD MFA.

### OATH

Open Authentication (OATH) relates to time-based one-time password codes are used (TOTP).

- Software OATH tokens: Azure AD generates the seed/secret key and that gets input to the app and used to generate codes. Examples: Raivo OTP, Aegis, Tofu.

- OATH TOTP hardware tokens: small devices that display a code that refreshes every 30-60 seconds

Can only be used as a secondary authentication form

### Passwordless authentication

The aim of removing passwords as part of sign-in. Azure AD provides ways to natively authenticate using passwordless methods.

### Windows Hello for Business

Replaces passwords with strong two-factor authentication on devices - a combination of key or certificate tied to the device itself, and something the user knows/has (a PIN. or biometrics)

### FIDO2

Typically USB or oher hardware devices (e.g. a phone with NFC).  There is no password to be guessed, making them more secure. As a passwordless authentication method, it serves as the primary form, but it can also be used as a secondary form during MFA.



### Microsoft Authenticator App

As a passwordless authentication method, it can be used as the primary form, or the secondary when doing SSPR

### MFA in Azure AD

MFA requires more than one form of verification - a trusted device, a fingerprint etc so that even if the password is compromised, the account is not.

Azure AD MFA works by requiring:

- something you know: (a password or PIN)

- something you have: (trusted device e.g. phone or hardware key) or

- something you are: biometrics like a fingerprint or face scan

The following additoinal forms can be used with it:

- ms authenticator app 

- Windows Hello for business

- FIDO2 security key

- OATH hardware token

- OATH software token

- SMS

- Voice call

### Security defaults and multi-factor authentication

A set of basic identity security measures recommended by MS. When enabled, they will be automatically enforced in your organisation. The goal is to ensure that all orgs have a basic level of security at no extra cost. Some of these defaults include:

- Enforcing Azure AD MFA for all users

- Forcing admins to use MFA

- Requiring all users to complete MFA when needed.

### Self Service Password Reset (SSPR) in Azure AD

Allows a user to change or reset their password without involvement from an admin. It works in the following scenarios:

- Password change: the user knows their password, but wants to change it to something new

- Password reset: the user does not know their password and needs to rest it

- Account unlock: user can't sign in because the account is locked

To be able to use the SSPR, users must be:

- Assigned an Azure AD license

- SSPR must be enabled by an Admin

- Registered authentication methods (two or more) must have been previously set

### Password protection and management capabilities of Azure AD

### Global banned password list

A list of known weak passwords is constantly updated by MS. These cannot be set by the user and they will get a prompt asking them to choose something else.

### Custom banned password list

Admins can create a custom list if they so wish (e.g. brand names, product names, locations, company specific terms).



### Protection against password spray

Password spraying is trying a few weak passwords across multiple accounts hoping to gain access. Azure AD Password Protection puts  a stop to this.



### Hybrid security

It is possible to intergrate Azure AD Password protection with on-prem AD. The on-prem environment then gets a copy of the global banned password and custom password protection policies from Azure AD.
