# Implement and manage storage in Azure

### Use Azure Storage Explorer

Azure Storage Explorer is a standalone application  taht makes it easy to work with Azure Storage data on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

### Things to know about Azure Storage Explorer

Azure Storage Explorer requires both management (Azure Resource Manager) and data layer permissions to alow full access to resources. You need AAD permissions to access your storage account, the containers, and data within them.

Azure Storage Explorer lets you connect to different storage accounts - ones associated with your subscriptions, that are shared from other Azure suscriptions, as well as manage local storage using the Azure Storage Emulator.

You can also attach to external storage accounts for easy sharing. Access keys provide access to the entire storage account. When you regereate acess keys any Azure resources and applications that use the storage account must be updated.

### Use the Azure Import/Export service

The Azure Import/Export service is used to securely import large amoutns of data to Azure Blob Storage and Azure Files by shipping disk drives to an Azure datacenter. It can also be used to transfer from storage to disk drives - delivered to you.

Good for:

- Cloud migrations

- Content distribution

- Backup operations

- Data recovery

### Creating an Azure Import Job

- Log into your Azure Storage account (or create one if you don't have one yet)

- Determine the number of disks needed to accommodate the data to transfer

- Identify the conputer to use to perform the data copy - attach the physical disk if you intend to ship it to Microsoft

- Install the WAImportExport tool on the disks

- Run the WAImportExport tool to copy data to the disks - encrypt the drives with BitLocker and generate journal files to document the data transfer

- In the Azure portal, create an Azure Import job and provide the storage account to use, the return address for shipment of disks, shipment carrier account, and datacenter address of the Azure region hosting storage account

- Ship the required number of disks t othe Azure region datacenter that hosts the storage account, taking note of the tracking number

- Update the Import job to include this tracking number

- After the disks arrive at the datacenter, staff willl copy the data to the specificed storage account and ship the disks back

### Creating an Azure Export job

Essentially the process is the import job in reverse...

### Use the WAImportExport tool

The tool is available in two versions - Version 1 which is best for importing and exporting data in Azure Blob Storage, and Version 2 which is best for importing data into Azure Files.

### Things to know about the WAImportExport tool

- Before you create an Azure Import job, use the WAImportExport tool to copy data to the hard disks you intend to ship to MS

- After the Azure Import job completes, use the WAImportExport tool to repair any blogs that were corrupted, missing, or have conflicts with other blobs in your Azure Storage

- After you receive the disk drives from a completed Azure Export job, use the WAImportExport tool to repar any corrupted or missing files on the drives

- The WAImportExport tool handles data copy, volume encryption, and creatino of journal files. Journal files are necessary to create an Azure Import/Export job and help ensure the integrity of data transfer.

### Using the AzCopy tool

An alternative method for transferring data is the AzCopy tool. AzCopy v10 is the next-generation command-line utility for copying data to and from Azure Blob Storage and Azure Files.

Some characteristics of AzCopy:

- Every AzCopy instance creates a job order and related log file - you can view and restart previous jobs as well as resume failed jobs.

- You can use AzCopy to list or remove files or blobs in a given path - it suppots wildcard patterms in a path, --include flags and --exclude flags

- Transfer failures are automatically retried

- When using Azure Blob Storage, AzCopy lets you copy an entire account to another with the PUT command from URL APIs - no data transfer client needed.

- Built into Azure Storage Explorer

- Available on Windows, Linux, and macOS

**You can authenticate with AAD, or a SAS token**

To get a list of available commands, use:

` azcopy --help`

To start a transfer job, the structure is:

 `azcopy copy [source] [destination] [flags]`


