# What is Azure RBAC?

When talking about identity and access, we are concerned about two things:

1. Ensuring that when people leave the org, they lose access to resources in the cloud

2. Striking the right balance between autonomy and central governance e.g. giving teams the ability to manage and create their own resources whilst controlling them over all.

You can grant access by assigning the appropriate Azure roles to users, groups and applications at a certain scope. This scope can be a management group, subscription, resource group, or a single resource.

## Azure Subscriptions

The flow is as follows:

- Each Azure subscription is associated with a single AAD Directory

- Users, groups, and applications in that directory can manage resources in that particular Azure subscription

- Subscriptions use AAD for SSO and access management

- It's possible to extend on-prem AD tothe cloud using AAD Connect (when you disable an on-prem AD account it automatically loses all Azure subscriptions connected with AAD)

### What can you do with Azure RBAC in the Azure Portal?

Found in the IAM panel of the Azure Portal, it allows you to control access to resources by creating role assignments which control how permissions are granted. There are three elements to a role assignment:

**A security principle (who)**

The user, group or application you want to grant access to

**A role definition (what)**

A collection of permissions such as read, write, delete. There are several built-in roles you can use such as Owner (full permission and can delegate access to others), Contributor (can create and manage all resources but not grant new access), Reader (can view resources), or User Access Administrator (can manage user access to resources)

**A scope (where)**

Where the access applies - which can be at multiple levels: management group, subscription, resource group, or resource. The structure is parent-child which means permissions are inherited by the children.

### Azure RBAC is an allow model

This means when you are assigned a role you can perform certain actions such as read or write. However, there is also the oppsite - NotActions. These are a set of permissions that are not allowed where NotActions are subtracted from Actions (that are allowed)
