### MS Purview Compliance Portal

The portal brings together all of the tools and data needed to help understand and manage an orgs compliance needs.

It is available to customers with a MS 365 SKU and one of the following roles:

- Global admin

- Compliance admin

- Compliance data admin

Homepage includes several cards:

**Compliance Manager**: calculates risk based compliance score measuring progress on completing recommended actions

**Solution catalog**: links to solutions to help manage end to end compliance --> Info protection & governance --> Privacy --> Insider risk management --> Discover & respond

**Active alerts** shows summary of most active alerts and a link to where admins can see more detailed info

### Compliance Manager

Helps simplify compliance and reduce risk by providing:

- Prebuilt assessments based on common regional and industry regulation and. standards.

- Workflow capabilities that enable admins to efficiently complete risk assessments for the organisation

- Improvement actions admins can take to help meet regulations. Some will also be managed by MS - admins will get implementation details and audit results

- Compliance score which is a calculation to help the org understand overall compliance posture measuring progress with improvement actions

### Controls

A requiremengt of a regulation, standard, or policy. Defines how to assess and manage system configuration, org process, and people responsible for meeting specific requirement of reg, standard, or policy. Compliance manager tracks following types of controls:

- MS-managed controls

- Org controls

- Shared controls

### Assessments

A grouping of controls from a specific regulation, standard, or policy. E.g. an assessment when completed helps bring org M365 settings in line with ISO 27001

### Templates

A way to quickly create assessments. Templates can be modified to fit own needs. They can also be custom built by admins.

## Improvement actions

Helps centralise compliance activities. Each action provides recommmended guidance that's intended to help org aline with data protection regs.

### Use and benefits of compliance score

Score can help org understand current compliance posture - and to prioritise actions based on potential to reduce risk.

### Understanding compliance score

Overall score calculated using scores assigned to actions. Two types of actions:

- Your improved actions (org manages)

- Microsoft actions (MS manages)

Actions are categorised as madnatory (should not be bypassed), discretionary (depend on user understanding of adhering to policy), preventative (handle specific risk e.g. encryption at rest to avoid breach), detective (monitor to identify possible risk), or corrective (after risk has hit - reduce or reverse damage).

### Difference between MS Purview Compliance Manager and Compliance score

Purview Compliance Manager is an end-to-end solution to manage and track compliance activities. Score is a calculation of posture across org (based on activities).
